# Stats

This repository is collection of scripts for generating project statistics and
data.

Stats generated by these scripts have been, are and will be used in curl
related blog posts and presentations and by providing the scripts in a public
repository everyone can reproduce the results and can verify the correctness
of them.

And it allows everyone to help out to improve the script and to provide new
ones that generate even more, better and more interesting project stats.

## How to run the scripts

### Check out the main curl git repository

    git clone https://github.com/curl/curl.git

### Check out this repository as a subdirectory

    cd curl
    git clone https://github.com/curl/stats.git

### Run the stats scripts

The scripts are (primarily) written in perl and are intended to be run from
the curl source code root.

Example:

    perl stats/CI-jobs-over-time.pl

## Output

The scripts are written to output CSV data, usually having data and/or curl
release versions included in each line.

## License

The scripts are provided under [MIT](LICENSE).

# Scripts

## API-calls-over-time

Iterates over git tags. Extracts the number of function calls as mentioned in
the RELEASE-NOTES of the tag moment. Outputs version, date and a counter.

## CI-jobs-over-time

Iterates over all git tags. It then counts how many CI jobs that seems to have
been enabled at that time. Outputs version, date, total count, travis count,
cirrus count, appveyor count, azure count and the github count.

## authors-per-month

Iterates over the git log. Counts number of differenth authors every month,
then for all years after 2009, outputs: year, first-commiters, unique authors,
drive-by count and total uniues. The *drive-by* count is an author with less
than three commits done within that month.

## authors-per-year

Iterates over the git log. Counts number of differenth authors every year,
then outputs date (as "$year-01-01"), total count and first-timer count. The
latter being the number of authors who did their first commit that year.

## bugbounty-over-time

Iterates over all vulnerabilities in `vuln.pm` (in the curl-www repo). Outputs
cve, date, the accumulated amount and the individual payout amount. Amounts in
USD. Note that this then does not include CVE reports that received payout but
have since been retracted from the list of vulnerabilities.

## bugfix-frequency

Iterates over all releases in `releases.csv` (built in the curl-www repo). For
each release, it outputs version release date, total number of bugfixes in
that release and then the averaged bugs per day count for the last 5
releases. The first 5 lines obviously then have less releases for the average.

## cmdline-options-over-time

Iterates over all git tags. Extracs the counter from the `RELEASES-NOTES` from
each tag. This script also contains a bunch of manually added lines from the
times before the `RELEASES-NOTES` file contained the necessary information.
Outputs version, date and a counter.

## commits-per-month

Iterates over the git log. Counts number of commits done per month. Outputs
date ("$y-$m-01") and a counter.

## commits-per-year

Iterates over the git log. Counts number of commits done per year. Outputs
date ("$y-01-01") and a counter.

## contributors-over-time

Iterates over all git tags. Extracs the counter from the `RELEASES-NOTES` from
each tag. The script contains a set of manually added numbers from the time
before the number was added to `RELEASES-NOTES`.

## coreteam-over-time

Iterates over the git log. Counts how many authors that have done 10 commits
or more within the same calendar year, count them as "core team" members and
outputs information about them.

## cve-age

Iterates over `vuln.pm` and `releases.csv` (from curl-www). Outputs CVE, date,
flaw period, project age at that point, days since previous CVE, total CVE
count to that point.

# cve-plot

Iterates over `vuln.pm` and `releases.csv` (from curl-www). Outputs CVE, total
count, flaw period, project age at that point.

## daniel-per-year

Iterates over the git log. Counts how many commits Daniel did and how many
others did each year. Outputs date ("$year-12-31") and a share for that year.

## daniel-vs-rest

Iterates over the git log. Outputs date, total commit count, Daniel's share of
all commits, the others's share of all commits.

## days-per-release

Iterates over `releases.csv` (from curl-www). Outputs version, date and number
of days between this release and the previous.

## docs-over-time

Iterates over the git log and all commits done to the `docs/` folder. Outputs
date and number of lines.

## lines-over-time

Iterates over the git log and all commits done to the `src/`, `lib/` and
`include/` folders. Outputs date and number of lines. The script contains a
set of versions and LOC counts, manually counted from the time before the git
repo.

## protocols-over-time

Iterates over `protocol-history.md`, which is a human maintained input
source. Outputs date, protocol, total count. The protocol being the one that
was added at that particular moment in time. The initial protocols were added
*before* the first curl release...

## setopts-over-time

Iterates over all git tags. Extracs the setopt counter from the
`RELEASES-NOTES` from each tag. The script contains a set of manually added
numbers from the time before the number was added to `RELEASES-NOTES`. Outputs
version, date and counter.

## tests-over-time

**Warning** this script iteratively checks out the git repository multiple
times.

Iterates over all git tags. Checks out the repository from each tag and counts
the number of files matching `tests/data/test*`. Outputs version, date and
counter.

## tls-over-time

Iterates over `tls-history.md`, which is a human maintained input
source. Outputs date, backend, total count. The "backend" being the TLS
library that was added (or removed) at that particular moment in time. Removed
backends are prefixed with a minus.

## vulns-over-time

Iterates over all vulnerabilities in `vuln.pm` (in the curl-www repo). Outputs
cve, date, the total CVE count.

## vulns-per-year

Iterates over all vulnerabilities in `vuln.pm` (in the curl-www repo). Outputs
date ("$year-01-01;, CVEs that year and the total CVE count up and including
that year.
